---
layout: post
title: "Getting around in Genoa (Genova)"
author: "Renan Greca"
categories: travel
tags: [travel, italy]
image: 
---

The capital of Liguria is Genova, a portuary city in the middle of the Italian Riviera. It's an ancient city, with great food and incredible history. It's also quite easy to access from most other major Italian cities via train, primarily through the two main train stations: Brignole and Piazza Príncipe.

Genova has a very accessible public transportation system, with a 24-hour pass for up to 4 people costing only 9€. The busses are comfortable and the single metro line is recently constructed. Be careful, however: some of the bus lines loop onto themselves and it's quite easy to accidentally take a bus headed to the opposite direction from where you want to go.

The historic center is naturally the main attraction. It's a small area with many small alleys, although the buildings are a little bit taller than you would expect in such a small space. It's full of historic buildings, shops, restaurants and foccacerias. **Via Giuseppe Garibaldi** and its buildings form a Unesco heritage site; most of the buildings there have been bought by corporations such as banks, who have the duty of preserving the original appearance of the exteriors and the entry lobbies. Also unmissable is **Piazza Ferrari**, with a large round fountain adding some freshness to the summer heat. A few steps from there will take you to the main museums of the city and the cathedral.

There is no beach in the central part of Genova, but the coastline has attractions with other kind to balance the heavy view of the port. Easily visible are the **ferris wheel**, which costs 8€ per person. There's also the **Bigo**, a panoramic elevator inspired by the cranes around the port. I particularly liked how it blended modern architecture with a look that completely suits the port, although the elevator itself was not open for visit when we tried going there.


Genova's **acquarium** is one of the largest in Europe, justifying its ticket price of 27€. There are exhibits based on different parts of the world, including ones dedicated to sharks, penguins, manatees and very playful dolphins. The entry times are scheduled and it takes around 2 hours to visit it, so plan accordingly.

